---
title: 2017 Book List
categories: Musings
---

I'm making an effort to up my reading this year.

I used to be a voracious reader, but that fell off around college (yes, pursuing a degree was the main thing
holding me back from getting an education). Lately I've been trying to spend less time immersed in the feeds
on my phone and more time buried in books.

These are all books that I've read on paper — I find that my retention is much, much lower on a screen,
even on e-ink devices like the Kindle — and that I enjoy being able to flip back a few pages when
necessary to recall or revisit something.

I also find that the more I read, the more I'm able to read. I think a lot of people avoid books because
there's that initial friction to getting into them, but that friction goes away quickly the more you
read. I suspect the friction comes from training our brains to expect the quick dopamine hits of Facebook
and Instagram and quick-cutting TV commercials. I find it also helps to keep my phone in another room —
if it's out of sight, I can sink into the book much more easily.

## What I've Read So Far This Year:
1. **_When You Are Engulfed in Flame_**, David Sedaris
2. **_The Unsettling of America_**, Wendell Berry
3. **_Seveneves_**, Neal Stephenson
4. **_In Defense of Food_**, Michael Pollan
5. **_Mindless Eating_**, Brian Wansink
6. **_The History of the Hudson Valley, from Wilderness to the Civil War_**, Vernon Benjamin
7. **_Starbucked_**, Taylor Clark
8. **_Bonhoeffer_**, Eric Metaxas
9. **_Guns, Germs, and Steel_**, Jared Diamond
10. **_New York 2140_**, Kim Stanley Robinson
11. **_Monsignor Quixote_**, Graham Greene
12. **_Growing a Farmer_**, Kurt Timmermeister
13. **_Lincoln in the Bardo_**, George Saunders
14. **_The Sun Also Rises_**, Ernest Hemingway
15. **_Hillbilly Elegy_**, JD Vance
16. **_Deep Work_**, Cal Newport
17. **_Legends of the Fall_**, Jim Harrison
18. **_Rocket Men_**, Craig Nelson
19. **_Rest_**, Alex Soojung-Kim Pang
20. **_The Planet on the Table_**, Kim Stanley Robinson
21. **_The Botany of Desire_**, Michael Pollan
22. **_The Years of Rice and Salt_**, Kim Stanley Robinson
23. **_Modern Romance_**, Aziz Ansari
24. **_Dreamland_**, Sam Quinones

That works out to **8 fiction** and **16 non-fiction.**

Of the fiction, **4** were **hard sci-fi or alt-history speculative fiction**, **2** were **character studies told via
trips through Spain**, and **1** was about **the soul of Abraham Lincoln's son traveling through the Tibetan Buddhist
afterlife**.

Of the non-fiction books, **2** were **biographies**, **10** were **sociology**, and **5** were related
to **food and agriculture**.

My most commonly-read authors this year have been **Kim Stanley Robinson** (2 novels and 1 anthology of short stories)
and **Michael Pollan** (2 books on food).


## Upcoming:
- _Radical Technologies_, Adam Greenfield
- _Southern Reach_ trilogy, Jeff VanderMeer
- Augustine's _Confessions_, new Sarah Ruden translation
- _Annals of the Former World_, John McPhee

I'll read more, I'm sure, but I try not to plan out too far in advance. I prefer to order a few books specifically, and take
out a few from the library spontaneously at the same time. That way I always have several books to choose from on my
nightstand, some planned and some not.
